Implement Implicit Incompressible SPH (IISPH) (#751)
trixi-framework/TrixiParticles.jl: docs/src/systems/implicit_incompressible_sph.md

# [Implicit Incompressible SPH](@id iisph)

Implicit Incompressible SPH as introduced by [M. Ihmsen](@cite ihmsen2013) is a scheme that computes pressure values, by iteratively solving a linear system using a relaxed jacobi system, to resolve the particles density deviation from the reference density. This method solves a linear system $Ax=b$ where the pressure values that are used for the pressure acceleration are the unknown variable $x$.
It does not use a state equation to generate pressure values like the [weakly compressible SPH scheme](weakly_compressible_sph.md).

To derive the formulation for the linear system we start by discretizing the Continuity equation

```math
\frac{D\rho}{Dt} = - \rho \nabla \cdot v
```

For a particle $i$ a forward difference method is used to discretizie the left hand side of the equation to get

```math
\frac{\rho_i(t+ \Delta t - \rho_i(t))}{\Delta t}.
```

> The right-hand side is discretized by the difference formulation of the divergence of the velocity field.
> 
> ```math
> \nabla \cdot \textbf{v}_i = \frac{1}{\rho_i} \sum_j m_j \textbf{v}_{ij} \nabla W_{ij},
> ```
> where $\textbf{v}_{ij}$ is equal to $\textbf{v}_i - \textbf{v}_j$.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
The divergence in the right-hand side is discretized with the SPH discretization for particle ``i`` as
```math
-\frac{1}{\rho_i} \sum_j m_j \textbf{v}_{ij} \nabla W_{ij},
```
where ``\bm{v}_{ij} = \bm{v}_i - \bm{v}_j``.
````
1. The minus sign is important when discretizing a divergence.
2. Use `\bm` for math (change everywhere please).
3. Be careful with equations. The RHS is not equal to this, but it is approximated by this discretization.

> So all in all the following discretized version of the continuity equation for a particle $i$ is achieved:
> 
> ```math
> \frac{\rho_i(t + \Delta t) - \rho_i(t)}{\Delta t} = \sum_j m_j \textbf{v}_{ij}(t+\Delta t) \nabla W_{ij}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Together, the following discretized version of the continuity equation for a particle $i$ is achieved:
```math
\frac{\rho_i(t + \Delta t) - \rho_i(t)}{\Delta t} = \sum_j m_j \textbf{v}_{ij}(t+\Delta t) \nabla W_{ij}.
```

```

> In this implicit formulation the unknown velocities $\textbf{v}_{ij}(t + \Delta t)$ are needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The right-hand side contains the unknown velocities $\textbf{v}_{ij}(t + \Delta t)$ at the next time step, making it an implicit formulation.
```

> They are given by adding all pressure and non-pressure accelerations to the current velocity:
> 
> ```math
> \textbf{v}_i(t + \Delta t) = \textbf{v}_i(t) * \frac{\textbf{F}_i^{adv}(t) + \textbf{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i}
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
Using the semi-implicit Euler method, we can obtain the velocity in the next time step as
```math
\bm{v}_i(t + \Delta t) = \bm{v}_i(t) + \Deltat t \frac{\bm{F}_i^\text{adv}(t) + \bm{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i}
```
````
Note the `^\text{adv}`. We are in math mode, so `adv` means a times d times v. This is then rendered as italic and with different kerning than text.
Since you mean the text "adv", this should be put inside a `\text`. This mistake is very common and is often found in papers as well, such as the Ihmsen 2013 paper.

> $\textbf{F}_i^{adv}$ are all non-pressure forces such as gravity, viscosiy, surface tension and more, while $\textbf{F}_i^p(t)$ are the unknown pressure forces, which have to be determined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$\textbf{F}_i^{adv}$ denotes all non-pressure forces such as gravity, viscosity, surface tension and more, while $\textbf{F}_i^p(t)$ denotes the unknown pressure forces, which we want to solve for.
```

The goal is to compute the pressure values required to obtain the pressure acceleration that ensures each particle reaches the rest density in the next time step. At the moment these pressure values are unknown in $t$, but all the non-pressure forces are already known.
Therefore a predicted velocity can be calculated which depends only on the non-pressure forces $\textbf{F}_i^{adv}$:

```math
\textbf{v}_i^{adv}= \textbf{v}_i(t) + \Delta t \frac{\textbf{F}_i^{adv}(t)}{m_i},
```
Using this predicted velocity and the continuity equation a predicted density can also be determined.

```math
\rho_i^{adv} = \rho_i(t) + \Delta t \sum_j m_j \textbf{v}_{ij}^{adv} \nabla W_{ij}(t)
```

To achieve the rest density, the unknown pressure forces must counteract the compression caused by the non-pressure forces. In other words, they must resolve the deviation between the predicted density and the reference density.

Therefore following equation needs to be fulfilled:
```math

> \Delta t ^2 \sum_j m_j \left(  \frac{\textbf{F}\_i^p(t)}{m_i} - \frac{\textbf{F}\_j^p(t)}{m_j} \right) \nabla W_{ij}(t) = \rho_0 - \rho_i^{adv}

Reviewer: Please render the docs and check if everything rendered correctly. This here doesn't:
<img width="583" height="100" alt="grafik" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/90bbd9b4-595e-4bd4-a59d-eb4eed758356" />

```

This leads to the following updated formulation of the linear system:

```math
\Delta t^2 \sum_j m_j \left(  \frac{\textbf{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i} - \frac{\textbf{F}_j^p(t)}{m_j} \right) \nabla W_{ij} + \Delta t^2 \sum_b m_b \frac{\textbf{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i} \nabla W_{ib} = \rho_0 - \rho_i^{adv}
```

It is important to note that, because boundary particles have no velocity, the pressure acceleration of a fluid particle does not directly depend on the pressure forces of boundary particles. However, the pressure forces of both the particle itself and its neighboring fluid particles depend on the pressure values of all neighboring particles—this includes boundary particles. Therefore, the pressure of a fluid particle is indirectly influenced by the pressure values of nearby boundary particles.

The pressure force acting on a fluid particle is computed as:

```math
\textbf{F}_i^p(t) = -m_i \sum_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}(t) -m_i \sum_b \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_b(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ib}(t)

> ````

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```
````
<img width="1018" height="206" alt="grafik" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/597ff973-ee11-4269-9a17-9ac97ac94f16" />
There is something broken. I assume it is just this one additional backtick.

updated pressure value is set to zero.

There are also other options, like setting $a_{ii}$ to the threshold value if it is beneath
and then update with the usual equation, or just don't update the pressure value at all, and
continue with the old value. The numerical error introduced by this technique remains small,
as only isolated or almost isolated particles are affected.

## Boundary Handling

The previously introduced formulation only considered interactions between fluid particles
and neglected interactions between fluid and boundary particles. To account for boundary
interactions, a few modifications to the previous equations are required.

First, the discretized form of the continuity equation must be adapted for the case in which
a neighboring particle is a boundary particle. From now on, we distinguish between
neighboring fluid particles (indexed by $j$) and neighboring boundary particles (indexed by
$b$).

The updated discretized continuity equation becomes:

```math
\frac{\rho_i(t + \Delta t) - \rho_i(t)}{\Delta t} = \sum_j m_j \bm{v}_{ij}(t+\Delta t) \nabla W_{ij} + \sum_b m_b \bm{v}_{ib}(t+\Delta t) \nabla W_{ib}.
```

> Since boundary particles do not have an own velocity the difference between the fluid
> particles velocity and the boundary particles velocity simplifies to just the fluid
> particles velocity $\bm{v}_{ib}(t+\Delta t) = \bm{v}_{i}(t+\Delta t)$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since boundary particles have zero velocity, the difference between the fluid
particle's velocity and the boundary particle's velocity simplifies to just the fluid
particle's velocity $\bm{v}_{ib}(t+\Delta t) = \bm{v}_{i}(t+\Delta t)$.
```

> Accordingly, the predicted density $\rho^{\text{adv}}$ also includes contributions from boundary
> particles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accordingly, the predicted density $\rho^{\text{adv}}$ becomes:
```

```math
\rho_i^{\text{adv}} = \rho_i (t) + \Delta t \sum_j m_j \bm{v}_{ij}^{\text{adv}} \nabla W_{ij}(t) + \Delta t \sum_b m_b \bm{v}_{i}^{\text{adv}} \nabla W_{ib}(t).
```

This leads to the following updated formulation of the linear system:

```math
\Delta t^2 \sum_j m_j \left(  \frac{\bm{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i} - \frac{\bm{F}_j^p(t)}{m_j} \right) \nabla W_{ij} + \Delta t^2 \sum_b m_b \frac{\bm{F}_i^p(t)}{m_i} \nabla W_{ib} = \rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}}.
```

It is important to note that, because boundary particles have no velocity, the pressure
acceleration of a fluid particle does not directly depend on the pressure forces of boundary
particles. However, the pressure forces of both the particle itself and its neighboring
fluid particles depend on the pressure values of all neighboring particles—this includes
boundary particles. Therefore, the pressure of a fluid particle is indirectly influenced by

> the pressure values of nearby boundary particles.

Reviewer: I don't understand this paragraph. What does the velocity have to do with this? The boundary pressure clearly appears in the pressure acceleration equation of fluid particles. You even seem to contradict yourself here:

> the pressure acceleration of a fluid particle does not directly depend on the pressure forces of boundary particles

> However, the pressure forces of both the particle itself and its neighboring
fluid particles depend on the pressure values of all neighboring particles—this includes
boundary particles.

Author: It's because the discretization of the velocity divergence is the starting point of the linear system and we discretize the divergence of the velocity with the equation at the top ( the last two summands) . But because v_b(t + Delta t) is always equals to zero, it disappears. 
So the pressure force from the boundary particles F_b^p also disappears, as seen in the equation at the bottom. 
So the pressure force has no direct influence on the fluid particles density. 
The pressure values for the boundary particles comes from the discretization of the pressure forces F^p. 
So the pressure values p_b do have an influence (indirectly from the discretization of the fluid particles pressure force F_f^p) but the pressure force F_b^p itself does not have a direct influence. 
Thats I wanted to describe in this part. 
<img width="561" height="409" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7be7bfb6-f1ab-4e16-9dfe-5049f7f8cec2" />

The pressure force acting on a fluid particle is computed as:

```math

> \bm{F}_i^p(t) = -\sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}(t) - \sum_b m_b \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_b(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ib}(t).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\bm{F}_i^p(t) = -\sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}(t) - \sum_b m_b \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_b(t)}{\rho_b^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ib}(t).
```

```

This also leads to a updated version of the formula for the diagonal elements:
```math

> a_{ii} = \sum_j m_j ( d_{ii} - d_{ij})\nabla W_{ij} + \sum_b m_b -d_{ji} \nabla W_{ij}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a_{ii} = \sum_j m_j ( d_{ii} - d_{ij})\nabla W_{ij} + \sum_b m_b (-d_{bi}) \nabla W_{ib}.
```

# [Implicit Incompressible SPH](@id iisph)

Implicit Incompressible SPH (IISPH) as introduced by [Ihmsen et al. (2013)](@cite ihmsen2013)
is a method that achieves incompressibility by solving the pressure Poisson equation.
The resulting linear system is iteratively solved with the relaxed Jacobi method.
Unlike the [weakly compressible SPH method](@ref wcsph), incompressible methods determine
pressure by enforcing the incompressibility constraint rather than using an equation of
state.

```@autodocs
Modules = [TrixiParticles]
Pages = [joinpath("schemes", "fluid", "implicit_incompressible_sph", "system.jl")]
```
## Derivation
To derive the linear system of the pressure Poisson equation, we start by discretizing the
continuity equation
```math
\frac{D\rho}{Dt} = - \rho \nabla \cdot \bm{v}.
```

For a particle ``i``, discretizing the left-hand side of the equation with a forward
difference yields

```math
\frac{\rho_i(t+ \Delta t) - \rho_i(t)}{\Delta t}.
```

The divergence in the right-hand side is discretized with the SPH discretization for
particle ``i`` as
```math
-\frac{1}{\rho_i} \sum_j m_j \bm{v}_{ij} \nabla W_{ij},
```

> where $\bm{v}_{ij} = \bm{v}_i - \bm{v}_j$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where ``\bm{v}_{ij} = \bm{v}_i - \bm{v}_j``.
```
Again. No `$`. Double backticks everywhere.

Author: <img width="367" height="59" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2cbd475-259b-4d8a-b1ad-2cc48c1c2a13" />

Then it looks like this in the preview

Reviewer: Are you using **double** backticks?
```
``\bm...``
```

```math
\bm{F}_i^p(t) = m_i/rho_i  \nabla p_i = m_i \sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} - \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}
```

Substituting this definition into the equation, yields a linear system $\bm{A}(t) \bm{p}(t) = \bm{b}(t)$
with one equation and one unknown pressure value for each particle.
For ``n`` particles, this is a linear system with ``n`` equations and ``n`` unknowns:

```math
\sum_j a_{ij} p_j = b_i = \rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}}.
```

To solve for the pressure values, a relaxed Jacobi scheme is used.
This is an iterative numerical method to solve a linear system $Ap=b$. In each iteration, the
new values of $p$ are obtained as computed as

```math
p_i^{(k+1)} = (1-\omega) p_i^{(k)} + \omega \left( \frac{1}{a_{ii}} \left( b_i - \sum_{j \neq i} a_{ij} p_j^{(k)} \right)\right)
```

Substituting the right-hand side, we obtain

```math
p_i^{l+1} = (1-\omega) p_i^l + \omega \frac{\rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}} - \sum_{j \neq i} a_{ij}p_j^l}{a_{ii}}.
```

Therefore the diagonal elements $a_{ii}$ and the sum $\sum_{j \neq i} a_{ij}p_j^l$ need to
be determined.
This can be done efficiently by separating the pressure force acceleration into two

> components: One that describes the influence of particle i's own pressure on its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components: One that describes the influence of particle ``i``'s own pressure on its
```

displacement, and one that describes the displacement due to the pressure values of the
neighboring particles $j$.

The pressure acceleration is given by:
```math
\Delta t^2 \frac{\bm{F}_i^p}{m_i} = -\Delta t^2 \sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i}{\rho_i^2} + \frac{p_j}{\rho_j^2} \right)\nabla W_{ij} = \left( - \Delta t^2 \sum_j \frac{m_j}{\rho_i^2} \nabla W_{ij} \right) p_i + \sum_j - \Delta t^2 \frac{m_j}{\rho_j^2} \nabla W_{ij}p_j
```

> The $d_{ii}p_i$ value describes the displacement of particle ``i`` because of the particle ``i``

Reviewer: You never defined `d_{ii}` and `d_{ij}`. Please either add brackets in the equation to define it or add an extra equation.

and $d_{ij}p_j$ describes the influence from the neighboring particles ``j``.
Using this new values the linear system can be rewritten as

```math
\rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}} = \sum_j m_j \left( d_{ii}p_i + \sum_j d_{ij}p_j - d_{jj}p_j - \sum_k d_{jk}p_k \right) \nabla W_{ij}
```

where $k$ stands for the neighbor particles of the neighbor particle ``j`` from ``i``.
So the sum over the neighboring pressure values $p_j$ also includes the pressure values $p_i$,

> since ``i`` is a neighbor of ``j``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
since ``i`` is a neighbor of ``j``.
```

> To separate this sum it can be written as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To separate this sum, it can be written as
```

```math

> \sum_k d_{jk} p_k = \sum_{k \neq i} d_{jk} p_k + d_{ji} p_i

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\sum_k d_{jk} p_k = \sum_{k \neq i} d_{jk} p_k + d_{ji} p_i.
```
Please check all other equations as well for punctuation. I will not comment on every equation.

```

> With this separation the equation for the linear system can again be rewritten as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this separation, the equation for the linear system can again be rewritten as
```

```math
\rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}} = p_i \sum_j m_j ( d_{ii} - d_{ij})\nabla W_{ij}  + \sum_j m_j \left ( \sum_j d_{ij} p_j - d_{jj} p_j - \sum_{k \neq i} d_{jk}p_k \right) \nabla W_{ij}
```

In this formulation all coefficients that are getting multiplied with the pressure value $p_i$
are separated from the other. The diagonal elements $a_{ii}$ can therefore be defined as:

```math
a_{ii} = \sum_j m_j ( d_{ii} - d_{ij})\nabla W_{ij}
```

> The remaining part of the equation represents the influence of the other pressure values $p_j$
> ​
>  . Hence, the final relaxed Jacobi iteration takes the form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remaining part of the equation represents the influence of the other pressure values $p_j$.
​Hence, the final relaxed Jacobi iteration takes the form:
```

```math
p_i^{l+1} = (1 - \omega) p_i^{l} + \omega \frac{1}{a_{ii}} \left( \rho_0 -\rho_i^{\text{adv}} - \sum_j m_j \left( \sum_j d_{ij} p_j^l - d_{jj} p_j^l - \sum_{k \neq i} d_{jk} p_k^l \right) \nabla W_{ij} \right).
```

Because interactions are local, limited to particles within the kernel support defined by
the smoothing length, each particle's pressure $p_i$ depends only on its own value and
nearby particles.
Consequently, the matrix A is sparse (most entries are zero).

> The diagonal elements $a_ii$ get computed and stored at the beginning of the simulation step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagonal elements ``a_{ii}`` get computed and stored at the beginning of the simulation step
```

and remain unchanged throughout the relaxed Jacobi iterations. The same applies for the
$d_{ii}$. The coefficients $d_{ij}$ are computed, but not stored, as part of the calculation
of $a_{ii}$.

> During the jacobi iterations, two loops over all particles are performed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the Jacobi iterations, two loops over all particles are performed:
```

> The first updates the values of $\sum_j d_{ij}$ and the second is to compute the updated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first updates the values of $\sum_j d_{ij}$ and the second computes the updated
```

pressure values $p_i^{l+1}$.

> The final pressure update follows the given formula of the relaxed jacobi scheme, with two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final pressure update follows the equation of the relaxed Jacobi scheme as stated above, with two
```

exceptions:
#### 1. Pressure clamping
To avoid negative pressure values, one can enable pressure clamping. In this case, the

> pressure update is given by:
> 
> ```math
> p_i^{l+1} = \max \left(0, (1-\omega) p_i^l + \omega \frac{\rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}} - \sum_{j \neq i} a_{ij}p_j^l}{a{ii}}\right)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pressure update is given by

```math
p_i^{l+1} = \max \left(0, (1-\omega) p_i^l + \omega \frac{\rho_0 - \rho_i^{\text{adv}} - \sum_{j \neq i} a_{ij}p_j^l}{a_{ii}}\right).
```

```

#### 2. Small diagonal elements
If the diagonal element $a_{ii}$ becomes too small or even zero, the simulation may become
unstable. This can occur, for example, if a particle is isolated and receives little or no
influence from neighboring particles, or due to numerical cancellations. In such cases, the
updated pressure value is set to zero.

There are also other options, like setting $a_{ii}$ to the threshold value if it is beneath

> and then update with the known formula, or just don't update the pressure value at all, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then update with the usual equation, or just don't update the pressure value at all, and
```

> continue with the old value. By setting the pressure value to zero, the numerical error
> through this can not be so big to mess up a whole simulation, as long as it doesn't happens
> for too many particles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue with the old value. The numerical error introduced by this technique remains small,
as only isolated or almost isolated particles are affected.
```

```math
\bm{F}_i^p(t) = -\sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}(t) - \sum_b m_b \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_b(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ib}(t)
```

This also leads to a updated version of the formula for the diagonal elements:
```math
a_{ii} = \sum_j m_j ( d_{ii} - d_{ij})\nabla W_{ij} + \sum_b m_b -d_{ji} \nabla W_{ij}
```

From this point forward, the computation of the coefficients required for the Jacobi scheme
(such as $d_{ii}$, $d_{ij}$ etc.) depends on the specific boundary density evaluation method
used in the chosen boundary model.

### Pressure Mirroring
When using pressure mirroring, the pressure value $p_b$ of a boundary particle is defined to
be equal to the pressure value of the corresponding fluid particle $p_i$.In other words, the
boundary particle "mirrors" the pressure of the fluid particle interacting with it.
As a result, the coefficient that describes the influence of a particle's own pressure value
$p_i$ ​must also include contributions from boundary particles. Therefore, the formula for
calculating the coefficient $d_{ii}$ must be adjusted as follows:

```math

> d_{ii} = -\Delta t^2 \sum_j \frac{m_j}{\rho_i^2} \nabla W_{ij} - \Delta t^2 \sum_b \frac{m_b}{\rho_i^2} \nabla W_{ib}

Author: This has to be d_{ii} and comes from the Ihmsen et al. paper. 
<img width="581" height="141" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b410997f-7323-4b30-b38a-8d650d6915c9" />

The goal is to compute the pressure values required to obtain the pressure acceleration that
ensures each particle reaches the rest density in the next time step. At the moment these
pressure values are unknown in $t$, but all the non-pressure forces are already known.
Therefore a predicted velocity can be calculated, which depends only on the non-pressure
forces $\bm{F}_i^{\text{adv}}$:

```math
\bm{v}_i^{\text{adv}}(t+\Delta t)= \bm{v}_i(t) + \Delta t \frac{\bm{F}_i^{\text{adv}}(t)}{m_i},
```
Using this predicted velocity and the continuity equation, a predicted density can be definied

> in a similar way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a similar way as
```

The pressure force is defined as:

```math

> \bm{F}_i^p(t) = m_i/rho_i  \nabla p_i = m_i \sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} - \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\bm{F}_i^p(t) = -\frac{m_i}{\rho_i}  \nabla p_i = -m_i \sum_j m_j \left( \frac{p_i(t)}{\rho_i^2(t)} + \frac{p_j(t)}{\rho_j^2(t)} \right) \nabla W_{ij}
```

```

> Substituting this definition into the equation, yields a linear system $\bm{A}(t) \bm{p}(t) = \bm{b}(t)$

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Substituting this definition into the equation yields a linear system $\bm{A}(t) \bm{p}(t) = \bm{b}(t)$
```

nearby particles.

> Consequently, the matrix A is sparse (most entries are zero).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consequently, the matrix ``A`` is sparse (most entries are zero).
```

> The diagonal elements ``a_ii`` get computed and stored at the beginning of the simulation step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagonal elements ``a_{ii}`` get computed and stored at the beginning of the simulation step
```
